So far we've learned about Event Logs in monitoring traffic,
will close it out with learning about SIEM.
By the end of this section,
you will understand what a SIEM is,
understand why SIEM is important for your organization.
Choose which SIEM is right for you,
open source or commercial.
Learn about the different ways logs are
ingested and finally learn the basics of querying a SIEM.
Where does the SIEM fit in R3 component model of security?
All three, prevention, detection, and response.
What is a SIEM?
It stands for Security Information and Event Management.
That means it's an application that serves as a log aggregator.
What sets it apart from just being centralized log storage,
are the logic and features involved?
These features analyze the data and make it queryable.
Why is the SIEM important?
Organizations utilize SIEMs to effectively analyze, monitor,
and protect their most important data,
and establish proof that they are doing so,
which allows them to meet compliance requirements.
By offloading them to your SIEM,
you can look much farther back in time.
How do you choose the SIEM?
There are many options to choose from.
You have to factor in the size of your organization,
whether there'll be a dedicated resource and of course, budgets.
Here's some considerations when choosing your solution.
What is the licensing model?
Is it storage based or volume of events?
Does it allow for unlimited sources?
Scalability? If your organization grows rapidly,
does this solution grow gracefully?
Does the solution provide real time alerts?
How complicated is the query a language?
Are there built-in customizable dashboards?
Should you choose an open-source SIEM such as ELK?
Being open source, these products will be highly customizable to your specific needs.
There's generally a strong support community,
most have a lack of restrictions on how much data is ingested.
The biggest drawbacks to open source come in the form of support and
in the quality and quantity built-in features such as dashboards.
There are quite a few commercial SIEMs such as logarithm,
QRadar, chronicle, and splunk.
The strengths of commercial SIEM are,
support part of your licensing fees includes access to the support team.
While all SIEMs require extensive configuration,
most commercial versions do a little more out of the box.
A commercial SIEM will often come with
more applications and dashboards already installed.
The primary drawback to commercial SIEMs is the price.
If you have a large environment,
they can be extremely expensive.
Having said all that, many open-source SIEMs perform just as well as commercial.
It is truly more about fitting your organization's needs.
In any type of log aggregation,
whether it's Event Forwarding in Windows,
syslog or a full SIEM application,
the logs have to get there.
What are the ways that log files travel?
A push is where the source objects sends the files in real time to the destination.
A pull occurs when the destination request the logs in real time,
when the files are pushed or pulled all at once on a schedule would be in batch form.
Many SIEMs operate using agents that are
installed on the source and keep the log synchronized.
All SIEMs are different in their query structure.
However, there are strategies that can be used to write better queries in any SIEM.
Broad keyword searches use more resources
on the SIEM as well as take valuable time from you.
The better you organize your query,
the faster and more accurate your results will be.
For example, if you know you're looking for Windows traffic,
utilize your chosen SIEM's query language to identify Windows event logs as the source.
By focusing your query on a single type of source,
it will automatically exclude searching anywhere else.
It's okay to allow for a greater range of time.
But know that the tighter the timeframe,
the fewer logs their artists search.
If you know that the event happened in the last couple days,
don't select a search for the last 30.
While it may take a bit more time,
start with a slightly more general query.
For example, if you are troubleshooting an issue on your website,
run the query against all of your web servers,
and then work your way down to a specific machine.
As with any new skill,
it takes time to develop it.
The more you work on it, the better you'll get.
For example, this 24-hour search for
Google.com in my environment turned up nearly one million events.
But if I know the event happened in last couple hours,
I can change the range to four hours and narrow it down
from nearly one million to just under 150,000.
If I know that I'm looking for a specific DNS entries,
I can change my source type from any to only querying DNS logs.
I'm keeping the search at the last four hours and get just under 14,000 entries.
As you can see, the more specific your search,
the faster it runs,
and the fewer results that you have to analyze.
The power of a SIEM is that it allows you to search your entire environment,
alert on events your organization values,
and retain logs as long as necessary and you can do this from one screen.